This week on the podcast, yet another
extra special guest. Henry Ward is CEO
and co-founder of Carta. They're the
company that keeps track of uh cap
tables, compensation, valuation,
liquidity for over 50,000 private
companies. They work with 8,500
investment firms and over 2 and a half
million equity holders to track all of
this crucial information. It's kind kind
of hard to imagine that they were doing
this manually with stock certificates
before Carter came along and digitized
everything and put it all on the cloud.
Fascinating company, fascinating guy. I
thought this was really a great
conversation. With no further ado, the
CEO and co-founder of Carta, Henry Ward.
[Music]
Henry Ward, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Well, thanks so much for doing this. Um,
it's been a crazy week with the UN and
everything, so I'm glad you you guys
fought your way over. Um, but I want to
start talking a little bit about your
education and background. A bachelor's
in mathematics and computer science from
University of Michigan, go blue. An MSE
in market finance from EDHC.
I am less familiar with Edec than I am
with um Mish. Um what was the original
career plan?
>> Uh you know I went to University of
Michigan uh originally to be a math
major. I technically I'm my my degree on
my transcript says a bachelor's of
general studies because uh at that time
to get a math degree you were in the
literature science and arts uh uh
college and you had to take two years of
a foreign language. Uh and I failed
Japanese uh three times. tried Spanish,
failed that twice. And uh my counselor
was and at the time I was supposed to go
in the Marines. And they said, "Look, I
said to my counselor, you I just need to
graduate." And they said, "Well, look,
if you switch to a general studies
degree, uh uh uh you can you can
graduate because you have enough
credits. It's kind of a generalist
degree because you took a bunch of math,
computer science, and linguistics. Uh
and you can graduate next year." And and
I said, "Let's do that." So it was me
and 13 football players that graduated
with a general studies degree that year.
Uh but but the my passion had always
been math. I thought I'd be a
mathematician. Uh my roommate was a
computer scientist. He got me into
computers. Uh and and then I went into
software engineering.
>> So two questions. First, did you end up
in the Marines?
>> I uh joined the Marines out of high
school as an enlistment. I I went to
Paris Island and then I later went and
um what's called platoon leaders course,
which is like the Marine Corps version
of Rosi. Uh I did that. Um, but when I
finally graduated, uh, and sometimes I I
regret this, you know, you kind of look
back, uh, at old decisions. And at the
time, four years, uh, four more years in
the Marine seemed like an eternity. Now
it seems like nothing of an eye be gone,
right?
>> Yeah. Uh, I ended up deciding to pay
back my my GI bill. Um, because this was
2000. I graduated in 1999. My signing
bonus uh, paid off my entire college uh,
debt at the time, and I decided to go
that route. So, I I a signing bonus.
Where'd you go?
>> I went to a company called Trilogy out
of Austin, Texas, and it was an
incredibly formative experience for me.
I um it was a very smart company. They
they were going to be the Google of the
South uh for a variety of reasons. It
didn't quite work out uh for them. They
the CEO is still there though running
Trilogy and it's a great private uh
privately held company. Um but yeah,
that's what took me into into Texas.
>> So I I hear you saying you didn't do
well with languages, with Japanese, with
Spanish, but am I reading this
correctly? Did you get your masters,
your MSE in France?
>> Yeah. Uh, I did because the the business
schools in France are mostly taught in
English.
>> Uh, and English is hard enough for me.
So, I had to I had to stick with with an
English business school. The plan was
never to go to business school. I I
wanted to ride my bicycle in southern
France. I was a big tour to France
watcher. I loved riding my bike. Uh my
fiance, now ex-wife,
um uh was like, "Well, hey, if we're
going to go, I convinced her to come
with me. We're going to be productive.
Let's go to business school while you
train for the Iron Man and do all those
things."
>> And you did all of that.
>> Yeah. So, we But it was a French
business school, so there wasn't a lot
of work. Uh uh there was a lot of
writing, a lot of a lot of eating bread.
It was it was a great couple years. So
that's a kind of fascinating mix of
technical financial financial training,
Marines, and overseas study. Um, how did
that experience shape the way you think
about building companies?
>> You know, I I realized pretty quickly I
I I'm not good at the military. My
father was an army uh officer for a long
time and he used to tell me, you know,
in the difference between military life
and civilian life is in military life,
you're you're judged on the the worst
thing you do. In civilian life, for
certainly in startups, you're judged on
the best thing you do. And and I'm very
much uh I I do one or two things really
well versus I do many things, you know,
not wrong. Uh and so I quickly realized
the military was not not the right place
for me. Investment banking was not the
right place for me. I I went to an uh
investment bank after um uh grad school
uh and then I discovered
entrepreneurship sort of accidentally uh
and I I realized uh this is what I was
meant to do uh successful or
unsuccessful this is what I was meant to
do.
>> So so let's talk about the predecessor
firm to Carta um second site a portfolio
optimization platform um you launched
that uh not long after grad school. How
did that experience influence how you
approached the next venture? How did it
affect um what your plans were for
scaling Carta?
>> So I the idea for second sight was it
was like um a wealthfront or a
betterment one of these robo advisors
but um you know Andy and Josh did much
better job than I I did. My company
failed. Uh and what I what kind of rose
out of the ashes of that was um and I
got through the trough of depression
after closing it uh was I couldn't
imagine doing anything else as a
completely failed founder. I just wanted
to do it again and uh Carta came out of
that experience and it it was one of
these interesting things where the
conventional wisdom for founders is you
fall in love with a problem uh and
entrepreneurship is a vehicle with which
to that solve that problem. I was
different. I fell in love with
entrepreneurship. I fell in love with
building a startup and I just needed a
problem. The problem was a vehicle with
which to be a founder. And that really
shapes how Carter is today. We're a
heat-seeking missile going after any
problem we can find uh to solve to keep
the business moving forward. Uh and and
I I talk a lot to early stage founders
about this is which one are you? Are you
in love with the being a founder? Are
you in love with the problem? And both
come with strengths and weaknesses. If
you're in love with being the in the
problem, you know, you're passionate
about the problem, you'll grind through
the the bad stages of being a founder to
solve this problem. The the downside is
if the problem isn't actually that
valuable, you kind of get stuck
entrenched in this problem. Uh and many
founders burn and crash in that. Uh the
other side for me is, you know, because
uh I'm not I'll do I'll work on any
problem uh to to move the company
forward. There's often not a coherent
strategy. It's like I'll grab a problem
over here, I'll grab a problem over
there. and and you can see it in the
kind of diversity for for a $500 million
business. We have a a large number of
SKs and business lines and it's because
we shoot at a lot of different targets.
>> So, so let's talk about the initial
target. How did you come up with the
idea, hey, these cap tables, all the
data around comp and valuation and VC
investing, no one is really tracking
this in a consistent intelligent way.
Like what was that aha moment? I I was
working with uh Manu uh Kumar over at K9
Ventures on the my previous company and
when we shut that down and and we were
talking about what am I going to do next
he pointed out this cap table problem
and and was like hey this is a real
problem I think you should solve it
>> um yeah yeah I'll invest in it and and
he he gave me this this problem set to
go after and I I spent a few months
working on it and learning about it what
was really interesting was the first
version of it was not cap tableables
that's what everybody knows for
>> the first version actually was uh PayPal
for equity. It was instead of
>> uh back then you used to mail a paper
stock certificate just like we used to
do with the railroads. Uh and it cost
$50 in FedEx fees and a hundred bucks
for the parallegal to print it and and
somebody had to file it in a cabinet and
we were like we said hey why are we
email or you know FedExing paper stock
certificates let's just email it and and
that was the initial idea and we
realized companies didn't care that
much. We thought the competition was
FedEx.
>> Uh they didn't care that much about it,
but they said, "Well, hey, if you're
you're emailing all this stuff, can you
just put all of it into a table and show
it to me?" Uh and we're like, "Yeah, we
can do that. That sounds pretty good."
And that was the thing that had product
market fit was just showing them
everything we issued. And then once you
had the cap table of the company, uh my
my heat-seeking missile instincts were
like, "Well, what else could we do?" And
then we launched 49A and stock option
expense accounting and employee
management and card to total
compensation and QPS and suddenly you
could do so many things around this core
system of record called the cap table.
>> Huh. So fascinating. Um what was it like
scaling that? What sort of technology
issues did you run into? How much of the
data you were finding? Uh was it all
hand assembled or was there any mass
amount of data that made it easy to
navigate? What what were the next few
steps like? You know, I often tell
earlier stage founders, you know, being
a, you know, we're about 2,000 employees
now. The problems I deal with are no
different than the early stage. Uh,
they're just bigger, uh, faster, harder,
but they're the same same set of
problems. I I do the same thing every
day that an early stage, uh, uh, founder
does. Uh, and it's, uh, really simple.
It's talk to customers, uh, figure out
the problems, solve the product, um, uh,
build the product to solve their
problems, uh, and make them happy. And
that's just it. is just rinse and
repeat. Everything else is just um you
know overhead uh to building a building
a company. And so these days, you know,
I'm in New York for for a few days. Half
my meetings are are customer meetings.
So this isn't just obviously public
companies. This is public and private
companies. How do they differ? My
assumption is it's easier to track and
access public companies data. What do
you do on the private side?
So um public company data and you know
Bloomberg is a a great you know example
of this is is so ubiquitous and it's how
do we manage this incredible set of data
across massive ecosystems and networks
uh in the public markets. Private
markets is very different. It's it's
private there. There's no central place
to access all this data. Um we have a
lot of the data on what's happening in
the private markets particularly around
venture capital and private equity. uh
but because it's private, we can't share
it. And that is the very unique
interesting thing about what we do is we
track all the much of the same data that
like a Bloomberg uh would track, but we
can't share it with anybody. Uh and
that's the that's people have asked uh
me, hey, how come you haven't done
blockchain? You know, blockchain seems
like an obvious thing for a cap table uh
to be put on. And the reason is uh our
our customers um pay us to uh fix things
uh when they're broken uh and don't tell
any about tell don't tell anybody about
it and blockchain is immutable and
public and that's that's the big
difference between private and public re
>> really interesting. What was the hardest
problem in assembling a private market
set of data and cap tables across the
whole technology ecosystem?
the the big issue we had early was uh
what I'll call the dematerialization of
of private stock. So the the model that
we think of we look at is uh when Nixon
pulled us off the gold standard um uh he
dematerialized cash. You know now the
Federal Reserve could just create cash
because cash was now put into the cloud.
They could create money. They could do
what they could um move money around
without actually moving physical
inventory. uh they dematerialized cash
and gold and put it in the cloud. Uh and
this was in the 70s.
We think of us as doing the same thing
was everything in private markets until
Carta was was cash, it was paper equity,
it was contracts, it was PDFs, it was uh
documents and we dematerialized that. We
put it all in the cloud. So now
everything could be moved around uh
seamlessly. getting the ecosystem of
venture capital to believe in the
dematerialization uh of private private
equity and private capital uh was the
hardest part because it sounds crazy
today but in 2012 and 13 lawyers were
like no but you you have to have a a
green stock certificate with an
embroider around it like that's what
we've been doing literally for 200 years
like who are you to change this I
>> I would have thought if anybody would be
amendable to let's go from physical
paper to digital it would be Silicon
Valley venture capitalists. They were
pushing back or their lawyers were
pushing back.
>> The lawyers were pushing back. But but
even the venture capitalists because the
the venture capitalists are they're very
interesting because they are um stewards
of what the future will be uh and
prognosticators of it but they're not
users of it.
>> And uh it's one of these things I I say
a lot about AI is uh everybody thinks uh
AI will change everybody's job except
their own. And and venture is the same
like oh you know all the companies
should be using technology but but we
don't uh because
>> we're professionals we don't need it.
>> Exactly.
>> We're smarter than everybody else. What
was the aha moment where that ecosystem
that was kind of pushing back said oh
this is really useful and helpful. Yes
let's dematerialize. Let's go digital.
It was um the grassroots the the way we
got it going was the grassroots efforts
of startups saying hey they they didn't
understand that they were buying into a
dematerialization model but what they
understood was hey I can track my cap
table cheaper faster better on Carta
than anything else
>> uh and so they just came came to us that
was the wedge
>> the uh the kind of the golden um phrase
is you know uh come come for the tool
stay for the network so the tool the
wedge was just better cap table
management for onetenth the
Uh and then the network is once
everybody started converging on the cap
tables, it became the new standard. So
now it's a weird world just like it's a
weird weird weird world to say uh that
you know we had paper stock certificates
and that was the right way to do it. It
is now a a weird world to say oh well
why wouldn't we put it in the database
on the cloud
>> and that becomes a self-reinforcing
flywheel. You get a critical mass and
then you could go out in in all sorts of
directions from from there.
>> That's right. And nobody knows that
better than than Bloomberg and Mr.
Bloomberg because that's exactly what
Bloomberg did.
>> That that's exactly right. Started with
the data. Uh so let's talk a little bit
about this. You start with a simple
capital table management. Kind of
unglamorous but sounds important
essential. Hey, I need to know how many
shareholders I have, who owns what, what
VCs, uh what what um employees own how
much stock. Like I would have thought
that was around for 30 40 years. How has
nobody been doing that for, you know,
you could practically go back to, you
know, the launch of Intel 40 years ago.
How has this not been a thing?
>> The one of the most common questions I
got when I was raising money in the
early days for this uh idea uh was,
"Hey, this sounds kind of obvious. Why
has nobody done this before?" Right? And
I I uh my answer was somewhat cheeky and
I I always would say uh how how would I
know I'm doing it?
>> And uh you know I'm the last person in
the world that would know the answer to
this. You should ask the se 6.9 billion
other people in the world that haven't
done it who chose not to and I'm the
least qualified person.
>> I I think it's just one of these in
innovator dilemma problems that the
people that should have solved this
should have been the investment banks.
It should have been the uh the uh stock
exchanges, maybe even the VCs. Yeah,
somebody somebody should have solved it.
But
>> you know who's going to do paper stock
certificates? Like it just it's so
>> somebody had a clerk had to have a clerk
or a junior researcher putting this
together somewhere and had to realize
there was some value to both the firm
and various outside startups.
>> It's kind of shocking for
>> for sure. But but the your point so well
made Barry is the kind of person that
would be filing paper stock certificates
would never come up with the idea of
replacing them. And so you you need this
this is the magic of a a founder, a
visionary founder is is you need that
connection of they they know enough
about technology uh to to know what
technology can do, but they don't know
enough about the current process that
they think it's unchangeable. Uh and
that's the you know there's certain
level of intelligence and a certain
level of stupidity uh that you need to
get that that chemical uh quotient
right.
>> So so how did you convince investors
that hey this is worthwhile this should
exist it doesn't please invest in this
it's worth building.
>> Most investors said hey the the even I
believe you can build a cap table
product and make some money and sell it
but it the the market size is too small.
how many cap tables can you actually
sell? And the the pitch was, well, hey,
this is this is a two-part uh story.
Part one is win the cap tables. Part two
is if you win the cap tables, then we
can go build at the time what we called
the NASDAQ for private markets, the the
stock exchange to trade uh the these uh
these shares. And our thesis then was
the reason why there were many stock
market companies before us, but none of
them had actually owned the settlement.
They hadn't owned the cap table itself.
And so they had to connect match and
settle these things offline. And by
owning the cap table, we could digitize
the entire settlement process uh for
these companies. Uh uh but we you had to
do the hard work of winning the cap
table business first. We were wrong. It
turned out the cap table business was
way bigger than we and investors
thought. Uh today it's a $350 million
business. Um uh but the uh the uh stock
market that everybody thought was going
to be you know a billion dollar business
uh is zero for us.
>> That that's unbelievable. The um you
know VCs love to toss around TAM total
addressable market. Again kind of
shocking that people right in the middle
of this surrounded by tens of thousands
of companies uh in California and
Silicon Valley completely underestimated
the total addressable market. that
that's just shocking to me. Um, let's
talk about uh the the income stream you
set up. In the beginning, this was a fee
per stock certificate business. You guys
changed this to a subscription model.
Tell us about the factors that drove
those changes and how it affected um the
steadiness of your income stream. Yeah.
So, we we thought uh we were competing
against FedEx and so instead of paying
$60 to FedEx to FedEx a stock
certificate, you'll pay us $20 to email
it. Um it it worked. People would pay
for it. Uh what was really hard about it
though is it's a transactional business.
It's very hard to um to manage a
transactional business and it was very
volatile. And we also quickly realized
that um uh we wanted to move to a
subscription based business because we
needed to bundle other things that were
more subscriptionbased like 49A
valuations and expense accounting and
other services we were doing. But we
were we were two years in and you know
at the time I think we had maybe 2,000
customers uh that were all paying us 20
bucks. And we realized this was like a
crucible moment for us. If we didn't
change the business model we wouldn't we
wouldn't survive. and we emailed all of
our uh customers from me. I emailed all
2,000 customers and I said, "Hey, I made
a mistake. I I priced this wrong for
you." Uh, and I I need to change from
the $20 per certificate to, you know, X
per year. And and everybody had a a
price that they we custom already set up
for them. So, we didn't even ask him. We
just said, "We're moving you starting
next month to the subscription model."
Uh, and it was a very scary scary thing
to do because you don't know what your
customers were going to do. You you
literally changed the agreement uh in
the mid-flight. And I I explained in
this long email, I said, "I I made a
mistake. If I keep charging you this
way, I'm going to go out of business
>> and I need to move you over to this. Um
uh and I'm very sorry I made this
mistake. Um I hope I understand if you
uh decide to leave us, but I hope I hope
you won't." And it was remarkable. Um,
we lost almost no customers. Wow. And I
I have some of these saved uh and framed
where customers came back and said, you
know, we're so glad you did this cuz we
were wondering if you were going to run
out of business. Like, we thought, you
know, this pricing was wrong. It didn't
make any sense.
>> Your subscription model allows them to
just keep doing repeat business and no
one has to track, oh, we did these six
companies and it's however much it is.
No, here's our monthly fee and we can do
as many companies as we have.
>> They have a monthly uh uh actually
annual fee for most of them. They pay
annually, they they renew and based on
the size of the cap table at that
renewal, they they just get a renewal
notice. And um and it's interesting, you
know, eight years ago, we were 10x
cheaper than the lawyers. Now, we're
still 8x cheaper than the lawyers, but
now it's it's just a different different
world. people are used to software uh
now and it's it's that that you know 10
years ago is is a weird thing for these
companies to pay a subscription fee for
legal software uh and today it's super
super common.
>> Do you really think about this as legal
software? It I mean it obviously has
ramifications in law but it really seems
more like it's a combination of hey it's
business it's investing it's accounting.
um ho how do you contextualize
what space you're actually in?
>> It's a great question. I I think we
started as legal software and people
thought of us as legal software. I think
uh over the first five years we
transitioned the concept of cap table
from a legal uh uh solution to a
financial solution. So we sort of
categorize ourselves in the fintech
world. Um, I think today when you look
at cap tables, our fund administration
and fund accounting business, our LP
business and all the the the software
that we sell as a platform into private
private uh equity, private credit,
venture capital, I I think of us as now
as a as a software infrastructure
business. uh you know we we we sell
we're we're more similar to a Netswuite
uh or even a Google Suite than we are to
a legal tech company or a
>> makes a lot of sense and save on legal
fees. Um so so back let's call it about
eight years ago you were called ESShares
which kind of intuitively makes a lot of
sense. What was behind the rebranding?
Why did you go from ESShares to Carta in
2017?
the um we liked e-shares because it was
an electronic share, you know, instead
of paper and it made a ton of sense. In
2017, we kind of realized we wanted to
do way more than electronic shares. So,
we knew we needed a new name. Uh we were
also uh pushed on it because we didn't
own eShares.com.
We owned e-sharesinc.com
and there was a domain uh squatter on
eshares.com.
>> What did they want for it? uh they
wanted initially I think it was a
million bucks uh when we had we had $2
million raised total uh and then as soon
as we raised more money it became $10
million really and so it was just every
single time we were trying to get more
and we just couldn't couldn't do
business uh and so we decided we need to
change the name uh and we came up with
Carta and we were able to buy it for I
think 75,000 bucks and it was great
>> that's fantastic did did e-shares ever
get sold
>> uh I don't think so it's a great I don't
know if it's still I haven't been there
in a long time.
>> It just goes to show you you know you
have to leave a little bit on uh money
on the table. If you try and squeeze
every last penny end up with nothing.
>> Exactly.
>> Um so you guys I mentioned in the
original introduction Carter serves
50,000 companies, 8,500 firms, millions
and millions of equity holders. Starting
out with that first $2 million raise. It
appears that you've scaled from a little
niche solution to a giant platform for
private companies. What was the biggest
growth pains in in that scaling that up?
>> Uh it's all of them. we um uh scaling a
company. I I think uh I I love Jensen at
Nvidia and I got to see him speak and
you know someone was asked him about
would he do it again and and you know
he's one of the most successful
entrepreneurs of our generation and he
goes if I knew what it would take I
wouldn't have done it again really and
yeah and uh you know it's I think Mark
Andre calls it it's it's eating glass
until you you enjoy the taste of your
own blood. So it's, you know, ev every
day there's sort of this funny thing
where people are like, "Well, what was
it like to scale?" And I'm like, "I'm
still doing it." Like like we're, you
know, and and it's, you know, getting in
at, you know, 10:00 last night uh from a
4 a.m. uh start. It's, you know, talking
to customers. It's hiring, firing, you
know, uncomfortable conversations, you
know, board mechanics. It's it's all the
same. It's just more, harder, faster. Is
Andre's quote eating glass till you like
the taste of your own blood. Is that
accurate or is it a little hyperbolic?
>> Uh you know I think so I talk a lot to
founders about this where the the
founders that want to be founders for
the money. We all know that the expected
value of being an entrepreneur is is um
below pursuing a career. Far far below
the the better business.
>> Such a large percentage fail out of the
gate. So we all the survivorship bias of
we see the ones that have succeeded.
That's just the top of the iceberg. You
don't see everything below the
waterline.
>> 100%. And then when you see the ones
that succeeded sort of by definition,
the ones that succeeded made it look
easy, right? Because it's like we're on
podcasts doing doing all of these
things.
>> They found the right niche. They pivoted
appropriately. They built what was
needed and the market rewarded them.
>> That's exactly right. How hard could it
be?
>> That's exactly right. And and when I
look at my history, I know how lucky I
got. Like there's so many forks in the
road that boy, if I had flipped heads
instead of tails, I would not be here.
And I had I had to flip, you know, I had
to flip tails 32 times in a row uh to
get to to where I am.
>> I'm Let me interrupt you a second
because I just have to share this. So
I've done I 550 600 of these and I have
heard that exact thing over and over
again. And the first couple of times I
heard it, especially from billionaires,
I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, false humility."
But then when I start hearing it from
more people, from guys like you who are
in the trenches chewing on glass, it's
like, and my own experience as an
entrepreneur, you really smart and hard
work is just table stakes. You really
have to get lucky. And people don't
understand h the role of serendipity in
in how things work out. One of my
favorite other quotes is Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo
Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo
Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo Bo D D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D Durham, the
comedian, said um uh you know, don't
take advice from successful people
because it's it's like listening to
Taylor Swift say follow your dreams, you
know, or or the lottery winner goes, you
know what you should do? Sell everything
you own and buy lottery tickets and uh
>> that's an XKCD. Uh they told me I would
never win, but I kept at it. Here I am
today. Exactly.
>> No, it's it's 100% true. Listen, there's
so much more signal in the failures than
there are in the successes cuz success
maybe it was skill, maybe it was luck.
We don't know.
>> Yeah. And I what I try to uh coach like
in my angel investments is I call it,
you know, the love of the game. And so,
you know, you see founders that I want
to be successful. I want to be a
successful founder. I want to make the
money, you know, and what I always tell
them is like, hey, the the problem with
money, uh, doing this for the money is
most of your journey, if not all, you're
poor, right? your seed stage, early
stage, you're just poor. And so if
you're doing it for the money, you you
kind of quickly lose motivation because
you're poor for years,
>> right?
>> And then let's say you're one of the
lucky few to get successful. Well, well,
now you're rich. And so if you do it for
the money, you now you just you have no
reason to do it anymore because you've
got the money. And the the the people
that that that are successful over time
in this business uh do it for the love
of the game. Like I you know, uh I do it
because I love chewing glass. Uh my you
know my wife and I were having a
conversation the other day about when we
were poor and I mean really poor and the
really challenging thing is when you're
in the thick of it you don't know that
it's going to work out. You have no idea
hey am I going to get that lucky break?
Is the right client partner customer
going to come along and and give me that
critical mass to go to the next level.
So, not only are you poor, but the
outcome is wholly unknown. And so, you
if you don't love it, then what are you
what are you doing?
>> That's right. You're poor and you're
it's you're living in constant
uncertainty.
>> Uncertainty. Absolutely.
>> And I think what people forget is, you
know, I'm not poor anymore, but I still
live in uncertainty and, you know, I
don't know what's going to happen. You
know, uh I'm trying to build a bigger
business, you know, and and the water
water mark keeps going up. And so like
if if in three years the watermark isn't
higher, I I will feel like I failed the
last three years. Uh and I I think
that's the you know that's the essence
of being entrepreneur is the watermark
keeps going up and you keep going up.
>> Huh. Really quite quite fascinating. I I
want to dive into the world of of
private um companies and alts. But
before we do that, I just had to ask you
a data question. My my assumption is
accessing reliable and clean data has to
be the lifeblood of what you're doing.
How challenging is that? How many
different inputs do you guys have to
track at Carta? I have a perspective on
on software and data businesses that
might be a bit provocative which is I'll
make this statement that uh software
businesses cannot be data businesses. Uh
and the reason is uh if a software uh
business has customer data uh they get
that customer data by selling software
and service of this customer and if they
monetize that data uh uh on the other
side if their left hand is we will uh
keep keep uh your data uh confidential
uh and as part of our software uh uh
service to you. But then with the right
hand they're selling that data. It
cannibalizes their software business
because the customers won't trust them
now because they're now giving them
their data. Which is why Carta does not
have a data product. We have tons of
data. We do not have a monetizable data
product. Interesting.
>> We only sell uh workflow or business
operations software. The the um uh it's
hard to think of a business that sells
actual software and also sells data. Uh
I I can't think of any. Uh even
Bloomberg started really as a data
business. the the non-exist
non-existence of something is not proof
that it cannot exist. But my my best
example of why my theory that software
businesses and data businesses cannot uh
uh coexist in one company is Salesforce.
If anybody would launch a data product,
>> so funny. That's who
>> it would be Salesforce. And in 30 years,
they have not. And uh I don't think they
ever will. Uh and I think the day
Salesforce launches a successful data
business, I I will be eating my words
and I will be wrong. Uh but I don't
think software businesses can become
data businesses.
>> I would imagine that. So we use uh in my
shop we use uh Salesforce as our CRM. Um
very customizable and they have specific
industries that they they market towards
and and customize. But the moment it
feels like your data is being reused,
every single one of their competitors
would say we keep your data safe. We
don't monetize the data. Give them up on
them. come to us where we respect
privacy. I mean, I think the moment
anybody tries that, their competition is
all over them.
>> And you would agree because suddenly
you're now on every list of every vendor
trying to sell software to Barry and
they know everything about you because
Salesforce gave them your data.
>> Not only that, but it's not quite HIPPA,
but the SEC has privacy requirements,
things you're not allowed to share when
you you're supposed to know your client.
they have all this data and if one of
your vendors is reusing that repurposing
that data for their own ends like wait
that not only are you violating our
privacy agreement you're putting me
underwater with the SEC they may come
yell at me I don't need that I'm going
to go to your competition kind of
interesting so so let's let's pivot
towards the private markets because it's
so interesting you've testified before
Congress that startups and growth
companies backed by private capital.
That's where most of the new job growth
comes in the United States. Explain.
>> Yeah. Um, you know, public markets is is
actually a shrinking uh industry. Uh,
you know, there's fewer uh public
companies today than there were 10 years
ago by by quite a big margin. Um uh but
the number of private companies is
growing astronomically and be that's
largely fueled by uh there's a lot more
private capital than there used to be uh
to fund these businesses and there's
less reasons to to to go public now. Uh
so I think um I think that will continue
to be true. I think it's structurally
true. When I go to the to the Hill and
and talk to uh our legislators, the the
common response is well, we just have to
push more companies to go public. I I
think it's
>> the their their belief is the public
markets is a great product for uh
everyday Americans to access uh growth
equity. Uh and I think they're right. It
it is a good product for it. Uh the
problem is it's not it's a shrinking
product and most of the growth is being
happen is happening in the private
markets and their attempts to get these
companies to go public so that uh there
can be retail access to them is isn't
working. It's a little bit like, you
know, uh, the river's coming and you've
got like one tiny little dam trying to
hold the water back.
>> Let let me share a data point that I bet
a lot of listeners are not familiar
with. The US is something like four to
5% of the global population. We're
something like 24 25% of the global
economy. Global market cap, we're over
half. I mean, we are wildly
disproportionate in our public markets.
How much bigger does Congress want to
make that? I mean, what you're
describing makes a lot of sense. The
public markets are enormous. Let's let
the private markets grow and see where
they go.
>> Yeah. And that's certainly the the the
message that that that we're pushing. Um
we still have to solve the problem of of
retail access because as the number of
public companies is is shrinking. That's
left less and less options for your
everyday American to invest their money
in their retirement. Uh uh I don't think
the answer is to try to push more
companies to go public. I I think the
answer is to create safe uh access for
everyday Americans into private capital
and that's what we spend a lot of time
lobbying for in Congress.
>> So there are a number of companies that
bring liquidity to private uh companies.
Sometimes it's it's private equity or or
some form of a private fund. Other times
it's individuals who want to participate
in companies before they go public. Um,
what are your thoughts on the future of
secondary liquidity both for the
investors and employees of startups and
for the rest of the investing public
that wants to participate in these
privates?
>> Yeah. So, I'm uh I think I'm one of the
uh maybe top five people in the world
that have worked on private market
liquidity. I spent the the last 10 years
working on the on the problem and I I'm
of the view now that that uh at least uh
venture startup liquidity uh will never
happen and at least a secondary exchange
in the in the sense that we think of
public market exchanges that private
markets are so different from public.
It's really kind of the upside down
world. You know, in in public markets,
the the price is set by the last buyer,
not the first. In private markets, it's
set by the first and not the last. In
public markets, it's easier to sell one
share than a hund00 million worth of
shares. In private market, it's easier
to sell a $100 million block than it is
to sell one uh one share. Uh you know,
in public markets, uh the distribution
outcomes is mostly Gaussian, normally
distributed. In private markets, it's
it's um power law. Uh so all the math uh
that exists to in modern portfolio
finance theory uh in public markets
doesn't work in private. So it's just
it's a very different market
infrastructure. Uh, I I think all the
attempts to try to create liquidity in
the in the venture world are are will be
failed attempts. But I hope I'm wrong. I
hope I'm just a old
>> I mean, Equity Zen seems to have figured
this out a while ago. They seem to have
put together a way to do secondaries for
um creating some liquidity for for
insiders or employees at companies. But
it's not like they're a trillion dollar
platform. It's it's a little bit of a
niche specific focused. And there are
other companies like that. I just happen
to be uh thinking of them recently. Um
but really what you're saying is there's
a gulf between trillions and trillions
of dollars in public equity and private
stock and and never the twain shall
meet.
>> So in in public markets, liquidity
begets liquidity. And so it centralizes
on two exchanges in the US. In most uh
uh uh regions, it centralizes on one. uh
in in private markets what's happened is
there's equities and there's many others
there's many many small niche businesses
doing secondaries it does happen uh but
liquidity does not beget liquidity uh
the as soon as one of these companies
starts to scale all the competitors come
around and they devolve uh back down to
a niche business and and that's just the
the the market structure is that any
company that actually starts to scale in
the private markets uh it actually uh uh
it degenerates um there that we've seen
so many examples of comp of private
market liquidity providers, you know,
come in hot, get really uh a quick start
and then and then once they hit scale,
it falls down. And so you see so many of
these small businesses that will always
stay small businesses. I don't think
there's an opportunity for someone to
consolidate the market. There's been so
much focus on privates and alternatives.
Does this intensity of interest, does
this surprise you at all or you've been
up to your chin in this for for a decade
and what took everybody so long?
>> Uh we we've been in this uh up to up to
up to my chin as you say for for a
decade plus. Uh uh so it's it's not
surprising what I think is really um
we're in a moment of time and the speed
that it's happening especially with the
current administration uh we're
liberalizing a lot of the rules for
private market access. you know, there's
a lot of work being done around can um
uh retail investors access private
equity firms, private credit firms. Uh I
think that will continue to happen and I
think that's a big uh tailwind for for
Carta. Uh and I think the the the US um
uh economy and GDP because so much of
this capital is being uh now deployed in
in useful ways. I think that will
continue to be true uh in the next
administration. Hopefully, they will
continue uh uh that legislative policy.
Uh I think um uh it will it will be
weird in 20 or 30 years. It will be
weird um that we locked out 99% of
Americans out of private capital.
>> So when I look at who's being aggressive
in terms of moving from how do we get
more people onto the alternatives and
private side, it's everyone from
Blackstone to Black Rockck, Carile,
Apollo, Goldman Sachs. Go down the list.
I'm assuming you're working with some or
most of these companies.
We we know them all. We're we're huge uh
fans. I I was lucky enough to spend an
hour with um uh Rob Goldstein, the the
COO over at Black Rockck and and uh he
was telling me kind of the vision of of
Black Rockck and their their perspective
on private markets. And you know he he
made this very salient point which was
you know when they talk to their
customers they they might look at a
customer and they they spend you know um
25 million uh dollars a year on uh
public market infrastructure and
technology for their public market asset
allocation uh software and they might
spend you know uh 300 you know $350,000
on their private market a fraction right
uh uh with black rockck but they might
spend a million dollars total so 350k is
with Black Rockck and 700K is with a
bunch of other vendors and uh his team
is like, "Oh, we should go after that
700K and we'll win the whole, you know,
million dollars that they send in alts."
And he goes, "No, no, no, no. What we
need to do is figure out how to get that
million dollars a year they spend in
alts to be $25 million a year. Uh, and
then we'll capture half of that." Uh and
and that was the the mental mind shift
that I think Black Rockck is so smart
at, which is we're trying to grow the
market, not not our percentage of the
market,
>> right? That makes that makes a whole lot
of sense. So they're looking at uh an
adjacent market to their public market
dominance. They're the biggest
investment firm in the world at around
12 trillion. How do you decide what
adjacent markets are attractive and you
might want to enter them? If you started
with cap tables, um you're doing all
sorts of other data analytics. How do
you figure out what's adjacent?
>> We have a really strict framework on it
because we spend a lot of our time
thinking about where we can expand and
we have um really two two criteria. So
one is uh do we have a a right to win?
Uh so what gives us competitive edge
that we can do that nobody else can do?
Um and second is can we can we win that
market quickly? uh because we're very
much a software business like uh if if
you can win a market but it takes a long
time we're a growth growth company so
it's got to be fast. Uh so you have to
have a very um aggressive customer
acquisition model that that creates a
flywheel that the more customers you get
the more customers you get.
>> Uh and so if those two things are true
we we'll go after it and it it it leads
you to really funny things where you
wouldn't actually attack adjacent
markets that are uh obvious adjacency
that have obvious adjacencies. So the
example I love is cap tables and 49A.
>> Cap tables was a legal service when we
entered it done by lawyers. 49A
valuations was a valuation service done
by valuation providers. Nobody thought
of them as similar. What we realized is
by having the cap table we could do
valuations faster, cheaper, smarter. And
so we just started doing valuations.
>> Well, well, you know the total number of
shareholders, you know what the last
transaction or funding was. It sounds
pretty basic math, right?
>> Totally. It's just math on the cap
table, but they're are completely
different industries. So if you think
about from a market perspective, they're
different. But you think about it from
where we have competitive edge, they're
the same. And the same with fund
accounting, fund administration, fund
accounting software, very different
industry than cap table management,
>> but we're able to connect the cap tables
to the funds. And that gave us unique
competitive advantage that nobody else
could do. And so now we're in the fund
admin business. And that's that's our
our second biggest business line.
>> You guys also do compensation analytics.
How did you find your way into that
space? We realized we're the only ones
that could do benchmarking for both
salary and equity uh for startups.
>> Oh, of course,
>> nobody else can do it. And so
>> without the equity, the salary may not
be that significant.
>> That's right. But to to have started a
priority and go we're going to do cap
tables and that's going to lead us into
compensation didn't make a ton of sense.
Uh and that's we have a a flywheel of
this is how we enter these industries.
>> You're the perfect person to ask this
question. I'm going to go off script.
So, I spoke at an event in um June in
Silicon Valley. It was a kind of funky
hotel that was turned into this really
interesting space right on the edge of
um trying to remember exactly where it
was about 45 minutes outside of San
Francisco. But anyway, it was an
employee benefits
conference with all sorts of people and
I was there to talk about uh my book at
the time and I heard over and over again
from all these people who their 401k
people, their employee compensation
consultants, their health benefit
consultants, all these people who were
telling me that there's this sort of
misalignment amongst Silicon Valley
employees who were more interested in
the dollars than they are in the equity,
which just completely sounds upside down
to me. Um, am I just looking at a weird
corner of the world, or is that a thing
that, hey, you can't pay your rent with
equity. I have to at least make X. Uh,
what do you see out there in terms of
how startup employees are thinking about
equity versus cash payments for comp?
Yeah, we we've spent a lot of time
thinking about this and I'll I'll I'll
frame it as um you know wealth
management financial advice uh is a
wellestablished industry in the public
world in the I'll call it the liquid
world right you pay you know 1% or half
a percent of aum uh uh to your financial
adviser and they they help you manage
your assets uh uh there is no equivalent
in the private world like if I'm a
employee and I make you know $150,000 a
year in cash but I'm sitting on a
million or $2 million of equity uh
illlquid equity. H how do I think about
that? How how do I work on it? And there
is no industry for that. The financial
adviserss don't know how to work with
that in part because they don't
understand the the private market, you
know, illlquid asset piece. Uh but also
they don't have they don't have any way
to monetize $2 million worth of private
stock. You can't you know you can't
charge one basis point uh or percent of
AUM on it. And uh so uh so we've
wrestled with this question of if an
industry were to be created uh not
wealth managed but but wealth management
for illquid uh people for high net worth
but illquid asset holders. What would
that industry look like? Mhm.
>> Uh and so we've been thinking a lot
about that problem and and we we
recently uh launched a um a partnership
with Morgan Stanley where where last
year we posed this problem to them and
we said uh hey we think it's worth
solving wealth management for illquid
holders. How would we do that? And
they're, you know, the largest wealth
management firm in the country. They do
this extremely well. And now we're
creating a motion to basically help
these employees who are like, I would
just want the cash because I don't know
what to do with this equity. I don't
know. I don't understand it. I I don't
know when it's going to be liquid. And
can you create a financial advisory
industry to help those people?
>> H that that's really fascinating. I was
genuinely shocked maybe because I'm I'm
more risk-seeking than risk averse and
the thought of equity is so you know
attractive to me. But I guess when
you're in the thick of it and you're
grinding 100 hour weeks, hey, I'm
working my butt off and I still have to
worry about paying my rent. I don't want
to go that way. That was the only
explanation I could come up with, but it
was it was really quite fascinating. Um,
I only have you for a limited amount of
time. Why don't we jump to some of our
favorite questions that we ask all of
our guests, starting with, and you're a
good person to ask this. Tell us about
your mentors who helped shape your
career.
>> Uh, you know, I I don't think I've had
just one. I I think um I pulled together
a lot of people that have that help me
with little different things. And so,
you know, everything from my boxing
coach in high school and college that
that you know, boxing is an interesting
sport because it's one of the very few
sports that um if you're tired and
you're in pain and you have to let off
the gas a little bit, it hurts more, not
less. Uh and
>> you got to dig deep.
>> That's right. And um uh you know,
there's it's literally in the corner. Uh
and uh you know from from perseverance
from him from the Marines from you know
Mark uh Andre uh who helped me figure
out you know uh nutsweet what we call
ERP for private capital out of breakfast
uh to you know uh John Waldren who I had
to got to have a lunch with him who's a
president at at Goldman who explained to
me why bankers make more money than I do
uh and it's because of the regulatory uh
defensibility and so you just pick up
these nuggets from these very smart
people and and you you hold them as a
treasure trove.
>> Um let's talk about books. What are some
of your favorites? Are you reading
anything currently?
>> We just read uh Amp it up as a as a
leadership team. So we uh last month we
we took 60 of our top leaders at Carta
and on an off-site and every time we do
an offsite at Carta, we pick a book to
read and everybody has to read it and we
do a discussion group. Uh and it was
very timely for us. We're we're in very
much an acceleration uh mo motion. Uh,
and so, so everybody at at Carter right
now is is reading Amp It Up and and
talking about it.
>> Really interesting. Uh, what about
streaming? What are you listening to in
terms of podcasts or watching on Netflix
or Amazon? I kind of get the sense
you're not a big couch potato kind of
guy.
>> I'm not I I don't really watch TV except
I have an 11-year-old boy and I recently
got him into Arrested Development, which
was a classic. I mean, it's absolutely
some of the best comedy ever done. and
and we're watching it together and we're
loving it and now he uh he hits me with
the lines and you know, Dad, I I've made
a huge mistake and we're having a great
time with it.
>> Narrator, it wasn't.
>> Yeah,
>> right. I mean, that's where that comes
from. People use it all the time, but it
all goes right back to uh
>> um I I like uh his podcast Smartless is
always kind of fun.
>> Um
>> our final two questions. What sort of
advice would you give to a recent
college grad who is interested in a
career in fill in the blank
entrepreneurship, startups, private um
companies? You know, I just did a talk
at Waterlue yesterday uh to a bunch of
um soon to be grads there and and I I
said, you know, they were computer
science grads and and I said, you know,
um there's, you know, they know of this
algorithm called uh the hill climbing
algorithm, which is uh basically if
you're trying to find a global maximum
versus a local maximum. What I mean by
that, the analogy I use is let's say
you're a French, you know, you're
climbing in the French Alps as a
mountain climber and you're trying to
find the tallest mountain in the French
Alps, but there's cloud cover. You can't
see you can't see the tops of these. How
would you find the the highest uh
mountain? And you would you would do it
by picking a mountain, climbing to the
top, recording how high you are, and
then randomly jumping to another
mountain and climbing and recording
that. And there's all this math around,
you know, how many random jumps to
mountains do you have to have to have a
90% probability of finding the global
the global maximum. And I I say it's a
great uh analogy for or metaphor for for
early uh careers, which is most of us uh
unfortunately are taught you go through
kindergarten to high school to college.
You pick a career at 19 or a specialty.
You then become a a finance analyst, an
associate, then you become a senior
associate, then you become a man. And
you just you kind of walk this track and
you you never ask the question, am I on
a local op hill or a global optimal
hill? And I encourage people early to to
jump mountains uh to figure out which
which mountain they want to be on. And I
think one of the reasons many people my
age are very unhappy in their careers is
they look back and they realize, oh, I
got to the top of the mountain, but it
was the wrong mountain.
>> Uh and I encourage young people to to
mountain jump.
>> I I I love that metaphor. Mountain jump
is a great great line. Uh what do you
know about the world of
entrepreneurship, startups, etc. today
might have been useful 20 or so years
ago when you were first starting out.
>> Uh idea matters. Uh it matters a lot
because I've had a lot of great ideas
that did not work. Uh and I worked hard
uh hard at it. I also think uh there's
this um counterintuitive uh uh I guess
thesis that's happening right now, which
is the more entrepreneurs there are um
the harder entrepreneurship gets. But
people think the opposite, right? how so
many do so many people are doing it. I
can do too. Uh the number
>> Michael Moasan calls that the paradox of
skill. The more skillful players there
are in sports, the more luck matters
because everybody's playing at such a
high level.
>> 100%. And I think um uh it's one of
these funny things where like not many
people, you know, dream or move to
Atlanta to be a 100 meter uh you know,
sprinter because, you know, I think I
can be the greatest 100 meter sprinter
in the world. Uh uh and it's because
there's not a lot of luck. I mean,
there's luck around you don't get
injured and all those things, but like
we pretty quickly can tell who's good
and who's not good.
>> Skill out.
>> Yes. And and the it's a little bit like
acting. Like so much of it is luck that
because so much of it is luck, people
think anybody can do it. And it it's
actually worse. Um you actually have to
be a super skilled, you know, 100 meter
sprinter and you have to be lucky uh to
do one of these startups. And I think a
lot of people are like, "Oh, you know, a
lot of it's luck." So if it's luck,
anybody can do it. It's it's you got to
have both. It makes it actually harder,
not easier.
>> I love the expression table stakes.
Smart, hardworking. That's just to enter
the arena. Then you got to get lucky on
top of it. That's right. Unbelievable.
Uh Henry, this has been absolutely
fascinating. We have been speaking with
Henry Ward. He is the CEO and co-founder
of Carta, helping to manage much more
than just the cap table for tens of
thousands uh of companies, investment
funds, and investors. If you enjoy this
conversation, well, check out any of the
565 we've done over the past 11 years.
You can find those at Bloomberg, iTunes,
Spotify, YouTube, wherever you get your
favorite podcast. And be sure to check
out my new book, How Not to Invest: The
Ideas, Numbers, and Behaviors That
Destroy Wealth and How to Avoid Them.
How Not to Invest at Your Favorite
Bookstore.
[Music]